Title: Behind the Barricades: Vice-President Harris Visits Community College of Philadelphia, Sparks Protest and Division
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/09/18/behind-the-barricades-harris-ccp-visit-sparks-protest-and-division/

M.P. Hassel & E.L.K. Noszka
PHILADELPHIA, SEPT. 18—At 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday, an electric-blue coach bus emblazoned with “HARRIS WALZ” turned onto 17th street and parked in front of the Pavilion Building, at the heart of CCP’s Main Campus. Rumors spread rapidly that Vice-President of the United States and DNC Presidential candidate, Kamala Harris, would be making an appearance on campus. By 2 p.m., a crowd of students, faculty, and community members formed behind the safety barriers at the Pavilion Building’s east entrance, all hoping to catch a glimpse of the guest speaker.
Within the crowd was also a group of student protestors, holding signs which criticized Vice-President Harris’ part in the U.S.-funded occupation of Palestine. Police from the bicycle and civil affairs units pushed back the crowd of students, while besuited agents stood watch, holstered weapons in view. Hours passed. Despite confirmations about Harris’ appearance and a brief sighting of Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker, many students lost interest and left early, feeling powerless and disappointed. What could have been a momentous event for our students was, instead, yet another demonstration that the Community College of Philadelphia is valued more as a political prop than a scholarly institute.
After a televised Q&A with the National Association of Black Journalists, Vice-President Harris arrived at the College. The eagerly-awaiting crowd at the center of campus, however, never saw her. The Vice-Presidential motorcade arrived on the other side of the Pavilion Building at 4.pm. and Harris entered through a loading dock. Shortly thereafter, the motorcade departed east on Spring Garden Street, then headed south on Broad Street. CCP President Dr. Guy Generals described the event as “a massive rally for the students.”
Yet, only a handful of students even knew there was a rally and even fewer participated. Reports from The Inquirer and The Tribune indicate that about 70 preauthorized students from UPenn, Temple, and CCP were given special access codes which allowed them beyond the barricades and into the Pavilion. Harris, known for her curated public image—from limited interviews to a 5-day-long debate prep in Pittsburgh—appears to have curated her student audience as well.
The day raised broader questions about who the College truly serves. Vice President for Enrollment Management and Strategic Communications Dr. Shannon Rooney explained that the Secret Service handled all security, including the diversion on 17th Street. She hinted that CCP was selected for its low security risk, despite Harris’ mentions of the University of Pennsylvania in the previous week’s debate. Student President-elect Frank Scales speculated: “If they had gone to Drexel or Penn, they would have protested, and it would have made the news.”
Students were not notified in advance of the high-profile visit. Only CCP employees were alerted the day before, via an e-mail mentioning a potential visit from a politician. That same Monday, a union coalition called Labor for Higher Education rallied in the Winnet Courtyard. The coalition, which includes Federation of Staff and Faculty at CCP (FSFCCP), announced their support for the Harris-Walz ticket and called for “full federal funding of public higher education.” Meanwhile in the Pavilion Building, staff were seen hanging banners and erecting tables in and around the Sandra E. Klein CUBE (P2-03) above the cafeteria.
Despite the fanfare, political discontent simmers among young Americans. The DNC’s assumptions about student support were faltering. Many CCP students voiced dissatisfaction with both the Democratic and Republican tickets.
Hajra Khan, a CCP student and protester, could be heard amplifying her voice through a megaphone as she stood behind the barriers. “Protesting Harris doesn’t mean I’m voting for Trump,” Khan said, challenging the notion that dissent equates to disloyalty. For students like Kahn, third-party candidates like the Green Party’s Jill Stein or Libertarian Chase Oliver present alternatives to the binary choice of American politics.
Afterward, Khan articulated the frustrations of the day: “Was this inclusive? If you’re going to beg for student votes, talk to the students. Don’t just go into a room with a few handpicked people.”