Title: Course Cancelled? Here’s What to Do
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/09/03/course-cancelled-heres-what-to-do/

D. Campbell
September 3, 2024
If a class you were registered for was cancelled because of low enrollment or tuition services, you still have time to sign up for a new class.
Check your registration status in the MyCCP portal under Student Services and then Enrollment Services. Click on the bullet point link, Search for Courses/Register Online to register for a new class. Click on Register. Select the Fall term. Select whether you want a 15-, 10-, or 7-week course. Type in the subject and course number then search. Or you could select the tab Enter CRNs which is the Course Reference Number.
Select the class you want that still has seats available. By clicking the link to the course, you can view who the instructor is, the campus and building the classroom is in, when the class meets, if it is online under the Instructor/Meeting Times. You may also want to check the Course Description, Restrictions, and Corequisites tabs.
To view what classes are necessary for you, go to the MyCCP portal under Student Services and scroll down to Important Links and click on My Degree Path/Degree Audit. Then click the button that says My Degree Path halfway down the page. The subjects highlighted in red with an empty box are classes that will need to be taken to graduate. The classes in light blue with a squiggly line are the classes you are currently enrolled in. The classes in yellow with a green checkmark beside them are completed classes. You can go to your course director and ask for a substitution of another class to fill a requirement if it is similar.
If you have more questions, visit an Academic Advisor, Counselor, or your Curriculum Coordinator. You want an Academic Advisor if you are a returning CCP student in good standing. You should go to Counseling if you are a new or transfer student. If you were (or still are) on academic probation, Counseling is the place to go. You can email your teachers to figure out who your Curriculum Coordinator is.