Title: Faculty Advisor Appoints Recording Secretary in Breach of Constitution
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2025/01/09/fa-appoints-recording-secretary/

M.P. Hassel
January 9, 2025
Disputes within the Student Government Association (SGA) at the Community College of Philadelphia (CCP) have escalated into what can only be described as a crisis of legitimacy. Faculty Advisor Jeffrey Markovitz, already embattled following a 7-1 No-Confidence vote in November, breached constitutional procedures during winter break to unilaterally appoint Brayan Orozco as Recording Secretary. The move, announced late on Friday, December 29, has drawn sharp criticism from SGA President Frank Scales and 2nd Vice President Jaritsa Hernandez-Orsini, who accuse Markovitz of undermining democratic processes and favoring personal connections.
In his email announcing the appointment, Markovitz stated, “Brayan was interviewed by officers then vetted by myself. Congratulations Brayan; I look forward to working with you in the spring!” But SGA leaders point out that this supposed “vetting” process was neither transparent nor democratic. As SGA President Scales highlighted in an email to College President Dr. Donald Generals, “Dr. Markovitz unilaterally appointed his own candidate. No vote was held.”
2nd Vice President Hernandez-Orsini expressed outrage at the lack of communication and transparency, stating, “I did not even know that Brayan was nominated.” Hernandez-Orsini pointed out that the Executive Board had already collectively agreed to fill the Recording Secretary position at the start of the spring semester. Instead, Markovitz sprung his decision upon them during winter break, late on a Friday, leaving no opportunity for deliberation or a vote.
The SGA Constitution clearly states that appointees must be approved by all SGA officials and presented during a General Assembly meeting for discussion. Ironically, Markovitz contradicted his own November 21 guidance, in which he wrote in an email: “Please remember that no student can serve in the SGA until they are affirmed by all current officials and vetted by the Faculty Advisor. Any appointment not following this protocol will not be honored by the college.”
Adding fuel to the fire, Brayan Orozco had pre-existing ties to Markovitz as one of two regular members of the Creative Writing Club, which held regular meetings during the Fall semester. Orozco also holds personal relationships with members of SGA, 1st Vice President Angie Orozco-Rasique and Treasurer Maria Baez, who purportedly conducted interviews without broader Executive Board involvement. These connections have sparked accusations of favoritism, further undermining the legitimacy of the appointment.
The administration has refused to act in response to the November No-Confidence vote, which passed with an overwhelming 7-1 margin and signaled widespread dissatisfaction with Markovitz’s leadership as Faculty Advisor.
The faculty advisor’s decision to sidestep established procedures is an affront to the authority of student leaders, but it is typified of administrators and those who work closely with the Department of Student Life, which oversees all clubs and organizations. SGA has been unproductive for years, at least partly due to years of Student Life’s bureaucratic malaise.
“It is not wisdom, but authority that makes a law.” – Thomas Hobbes
It’s difficult to see this move as anything other than a deliberate bypassing of the rules designed to ensure fairness and accountability. Do not be mistaken; this is business as usual. The college’s selective enforcement of rules is emblematic of a broader pattern of patronizing student organizations and disregarding their autonomy.
Now that passionate student leaders in SGA want to make change and represent student needs, will every action be denied or disregarded? Administrators’ real intentions for handling SGA is to mimic the ‘deny, defend, depose’ tactics like UnitedHealth and stop any change from occurring that makes college administrators uncomfortable.
A few misguided members continue to abet an unpopular faculty advisor and an administration content to disregard their own student-led governance. Whether former ideologies of student representation have been turned into administrative saviorism, or they are desirous of a letter of recommendation and a title on a resume, the spring semester looms. This minority faction of the SGA Executive Board must consider what policies they stand for. Have they not learned bootlicking keeps beggars on the ground?
The college is perfectly fine with selectively enforcing its own rules, to the great disadvantage of students.