Title: Paulina Reyes poetry
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/11/17/paulina-reyes-poetry/

News
Advice
Editorials
Poetry
Amore Mio
November 17, 2024
I sit in silence as the music plays and I reminisce on my life before I got here. I have reached a moment of peace. I have found a home. For the longest time I prayed to the Universe to notice my gentle yearning and send me something soft and unbroken. Something real I could hold onto, something I could make entirely all my own. In this house I live in, it always burns palo santo incense and my sister’s grown sage. The jasmine perfume stains my clothes, my cat’s fur and my dark hair leaving my essence in the air for it to linger once I am gone. Music fills the air, morning and night are the same to me. The days I spent. I have made these 400 square feet mine. I stay here alone and write till my hand aches and my head hurts. I cook till the smoke fills up the four walls. My cats jump sporadically attempting to fly. I miss my father, his green eyes, his mean temper, and his ability to get up time after time. His loud laugh and his terrible singing. I think of the time he sang me old love boleros, the ones from old Mexican cinema and or the one your grandma played sitting peacefully knitting and knitting you a warm sweater. I think of everything that has fallen apart, everything I have had to leave behind and put back together. I have stretched in my skin, I have burned, raped, cut, and fallen apart. I have left myself half empty, barely full without a drop of light in my eyes. Yet I have persisted because it is only selfish not to. I do not want all the attention on me, I want to be seen and appreciated in glimpses of my life I have been full and alive. Being held by lovers or caressed by my best friends. In my home, it will be safe to come as you are, whatever level of fullness and know you will always be safe here. On the corner of my room sits my poetry and altar. Scattered with prayers and offerings of whiskey, oranges, pomegranates, and perfume. A broken angel sits on top with a pink virgin Mary candle always perfumed with roses and ash. Old photos of loved ones and love letters I never sent him scattered about in the room. Stupid confessions of loyalty and a hopeful future all bleed through the ink with my tears, nothing no one will ever see. A note of an endearing passion that be sealed in a box to suffer silently in desire and want. My hands bleed and ache, bruised and hidden so you do not see how pained I am. In my home, I’ll make you your favorite meal, the one your mom made you in childhood and I’ll complete it with just enough touch of my own love, something in you and me will finally feel complete. Like I have known you forever and you have known me and no matter however time apart you still return to a cup of oolong tea, black coffee and your favorite kind of blueberry muffin and sweet bread. I follow my routine like it’s my last saving grace. You are like hot melting gold that flushes my soul and holds me still. I wake up in the morning and kiss you sweetly, hold you tight as we are wrapped in cotton sheets and heat. We get up when we want to, smoke all the weed we want, and eat till our stomachs feel full. I’ll invite our friends over to spend our nights singing together, the music entrances us to dance to be together in community. For the first time in my life, I know I have everything I need and need not more. That is the home that I built. It’s complete with hens and roosters, orange blossoms, a mango tree, and the gardenias outside the windowsill that blossom in the springtime. And every night You will accompany me, as I read You my old poetry, make Your cup of coffee and You help me do my goddamn taxes.
Sweet Honey Molasses
September 8, 2024
Sweet honey molasses drip down her back in the warm sun
Her skin and eyes a breath of fresh air 
Newness that made my world center close to her laughter. Sweet and dry like dates falling from palms. Jumping a popping hubba bubba bubble gum with her tongue
Giggling freely, jumping below the willow tree. You added jasmine to our hair. Thinking of what women we would be.
Tired, and shadowed. 
Or A bad girl who starts a revolution.
But this summer we daydream and count fireflies or hummingbirds.
She heats the pot of icy water
Oolong steam with brown sugar and dirty dusty hands sticky sweet of tangerines 
Deep into the summer month along Avenue 48 we walked along the highway for frozen strawberries with cream. The lingering smell of roadkill and sweat simmers in our breathy air.
Her ankles dust off mosquito bites and sand.
I rub the lime with salt along your itchy rash.
Our eyes drift between being sober and blissful never-ending highs
My hot Cheetos and your red nails matched, and we kept on with red in our heads as the sun toasted us sweet honey molasses.
Rotting oranges and dates scatter along the dirt, tart, and rotting,
flies waspy
Orange blossoms full bloom
Your eyes
A honey dripping sweet molasses. 
Flashes of red because we were angry for being stuck.
Or heat exhaustion 
Unable to move or run.
Flashes of red are all we see as we stare into the sun.
Blindly.
Hoping to become a shell.
An emptiness of never needing and dreaming again. To slowly lose a light in the dark, on a burning everlasting day, we are falling.
A fallen rotting date up in the palm tree.