Title: Phi Theta Kappa: Most Prestigious Honor Society at CCP
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/01/18/phi-theta-kappa-most-prestigious-honor-society-at-ccp/

Issa Kabeer
January 18, 2024
Community College is a one stop shop. There is great education as well as a space for community. It also has another component opportunity. There is an opportunity to join honor societies. There is one you should be aware of here at Community College of Philadelphia. It is Phi Theta Kappa Rho Epsilon Chapter. There are three million members in over nearly 1300 chapters. There is an ability to win scholarships to help pay for college. There are also other benefits There is also an enrollment in CollegeFish.org, PTK’s new comprehensive transfer preparation program. There is also an opportunity to get letters of recommendation sent to college admissions counselors. Well how can you join? Here are some facts you should know. If you are full time you need to have completed a minimum of 12 hours with GPA of 3.75, Completed a minimum of 25 hours with GPA of 3.60, Completed a minimum of 38 hours with GPA of 3.40, or Completed a minimum of 45 hours with GPA of 3.25. If you are a part-time students (those enrolled for 11 credit hours or fewer) must attain one of the following: Completed a minimum of 18 hours with GPA of 3.75, Completed a minimum of 30 hours with GPA of 3.60, Completed a minimum of 38 hours with GPA of 3.40, or have Completed a minimum of 45 hours with GPA of 3.25.
Phi Theta is located in the Winnet Life building in S1-12. There are dedicated officers that are here to serve your needs in joining and having a powerful experience within PTK. This office is adorned in certificates as well as two beautiful tassels at the door to welcome you in. There are officers to greet you when you come and you can see their office hours posted if you need any help with your membership with PTK. PTK often tables so you will be able to see them on campus. PTK also has an honors in action program: It combines academic research, problem solving, and action-oriented service to address real-world challenges in our communities. Don’t miss this opportunity come join and be a part of Phi Theta Kappa’s distinguished community.