Title: Philadelphia Renters’ Rights
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/09/28/philadelphia-renters-rights/

Erich Sturn
Sept. 25—Successfully navigating the rental landscape in Philadelphia requires familiarity with the landlord-tenant laws. This article focuses on key aspects of tenant rights, specifically concerning security deposits, habitability, communication, and the eviction process, and helpful resources.
One of the most common concerns for tenants is the return of their security deposit. In Pennsylvania, landlords are required to return security deposits within 30 days of a tenant moving out—provided there are no damages beyond normal wear and tear. If the landlord charges a tenant for repairs, the landlord must provide an itemized list of charges within the same 30-day period.
In order to safeguard yourself, you should take photos or videos of the rental unit when you first move in (including inside cabinets, closets, and appliances.) Once you move out, notify your landlord in writing of your new address and make sure to keep a copy for your own records. If you do not receive your deposit within 30 days, you have grounds to sue the landlord for double the amount of the security deposit and for any court costs you incur in the process.
Pennsylvania law requires that rental units meet basic habitability standards. This means that landlords must provide a safe and livable environment, including proper plumbing and heating, safe electrical wiring, and clean and sanitary conditions. Many leases in other states include an “as-is” clause, which implies the state of the property is acceptable in its current condition. This clause is legally invalid in the state of Pennsylvania, which means landlords are legally obligated to maintain a livable space regardless of any contrary agreements.
When you submit a repair request to your landlord, be sure to do so in writing and to keep record of all exchanges. E-mail is ideal. Text messages are not as easy to submit as evidence in court. You have the right to request repairs for any issues affecting the habitability of their unit.
If your landlord attempts to evict you, there are specific steps they must follow. First, the landlord must provide you with a written notice, including the reason for eviction, at least 10 days before the landlord can take further action. If you haven’t vacated within 10 days of receiving the notice, the landlord can file an eviction claim in court, and a hearing will be scheduled. You will be served a notification with the date and time of the hearing. It is very important for you to show up on time to the hearing—otherwise the court will side with the landlord.
The City of Philadelphia has a special provision called the eviction diversion program. Landlords are required to go through this process before they can proceed with an eviction. If you cannot pay rent, the city also offers a one-time rental assistance program, which covers up to $3,500.
Philadelphia tenants can access additional resources to protect their rights, such as atlas.phila.gov, which allows tenants to check business licenses and report any property violations, such as an expired rental license.
If you’re in need of assistance, you can contact the Philadelphia Tenant Union at (267)–443–2500 or at https://phillytenant.org. In some cases, they will even be able to find a pro-bono attorney. Always remember that, as a tenant, you have rights that should be respected and upheld. ☙