Title: SGA Showdown Over An Email Survey
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/08/25/sga-showdown-over-a-survey/

In what can only be described as a veritable clash of egos, the leaders of the Student Government Association (SGA) at the Community College of Philadelphia found themselves embroiled in an overdramatic standoff over a survey. Yes, an email survey that was sent to SGA members by the faculty advisor. Move over student concerns, the real issue is whether our SGA President and Vice Presidents can manage to play nice.
SGA President Frank Scales fired off an email filled with bellicosity and lacking any subtlety. He lambasted Faculty Advisor Jeff Markovitz for daring to send out a survey to SGA members. “This survey is unofficial, and some feel quite below board,” Scales wrote. Scales’ growing concern is that the survey, having the audacity to ask SGA members about their opinions on constitutional changes, could affect the efforts he has taken to reform the SGA’s constitution this summer.
Scales was quick to demand that the “unauthorized” survey results be tossed out and insisted that any future communication follow the strict protocols of the SGA Constitution. Because, clearly, nothing shows off your leadership capabilities like good old-fashioned bureaucratic disputes.
Not to be outdone, First Vice President Angie Orozco waded into the fray, wielding her keyboard like a mighty sword – something she has neglected to do for The Independent after several inquiries. In a lengthy rebuttal, she defended Markovitz as the unsung hero of the summer, who juggled Zoom meetings, childcare, and the thankless task of advising the SGA. Orozco’s email was a plea for respect and appreciation, tinged with the frustration of someone who’s tired of being dragged into seventh grade level drama.
Orozco also took a swipe at Scales, accusing him of running the SGA like his personal fiefdom and ignoring the wisdom of experienced staff. She lamented the lack of transparency and inclusivity in the constitutional conventions, as if the college’s fate hinged on these gatherings of students with no better place to spend their days during the summer but in the Bonnell Learning Commons tripping on utopianism.
At the absolute peak of this digital melodrama, Second Vice President Jar Hernandez-Orsini entered the email chain. “After thoughtful consideration and analysis, I feel that Jeff was attempting to coerce me to respond negatively to the survey regarding the Constitutional changes we have been working deeply on,” She wrote. Hernandez-Orsini, who started off with high hopes for a productive meeting, found herself disillusioned by Markovitz’s attempts to “coerce” her into opposing the constitutional changes.
She quickly assured everyone that Markovitz is still committed to amending the constitution. She also expressed hope that Markovitz would “respect the current constitution,” which is apparently as sacred as the Magna Carta in the hallowed halls of SGA. Is that why she and Frank are trying so hard to change it?
It’s hard not to wonder if all this energy could be put to better use. The SGA Constitution, if immediately markedly rewritten, could at most have minor effects on student life. Is this the hill our SGA leaders want to focus all their resources on mounting?
Perhaps, instead of treating every minor disagreement as a battle for the college’s soul, the SGA leadership could take a step back and remember what they’re here for. It’s not about who can send the most scathing email or play unitary executive for the day. It’s about serving the students and practicing leadership.
As the new academic year approaches, it remains to be seen how these internal conflicts will impact SGA’s ability to function effectively and represent the student body. Take a deep breath and remember this isn’t Capitol Hill. You were elected to help your fellow students.