Title: SGA President Faces Allegations of Hate Speech
URL: https://theindependentnews.org/2024/08/24/letter-to-the-editor-sga-president-faces-allegations-of-hate-speech/

Paulina Reyes
August 24, 2024
On Friday, July 26th Frank Scales received a letter stating he was under investigation for verbal abuse, harassment, and bullying at the Community College of Philadelphia (CCP). These allegations include disruption during LGBTQ Prom which Frank Scales attended and ate too much food, popped too many balloons and made guests feel uncomfortable. If these allegations are proven true, Frank Scales academic integrity lies at risk, such as being blacklisted in certain classes and losing his position as President of Student Government Association (SGA). He may even face expulsion from the college. When we look at what Scales and SGA members have done thus far, it has been advocating for a seat at the Board of Trustees, initiatives for free TransPasses, and ending food insecurity for students at CCP. SGA members have also worked at reforming the student government and are investigating where budget allocations for student activity is going.
There’s a lack of transparency about where 42,000 dollars have been allocated to the student government. Frank has been advocating for transparency of those funds, yet administration has been unresponsive. Amidst all this, Frank is being “politically prosecuted” as he puts it. On Scales’ socials, @frank. scales, he mentions that these allegations are politically and personally motivated. In return for being accused, Frank Scales is also being personally harassed on how he is a bully, and even racist.
Scales says he joined SGA for one reason and that is to help people. Scales is going to fight his innocence. However, is that enough or is this a matter of accountability on Frank’s part? In this situation it is hard to say what is true and who said what.
In all seriousness, without evidence of statements of what racist thing was done or said, administration proceeds to continue investigation on Frank Scales without anything to go off. They are labeling him as racist despite not having anything racist that Frank has done or said. In the past, Frank has pointed out that certain individuals who are friends posted statements on Discord encouraging students to report Frank in a provided link. Frank has suggested these allegations are politically motivated. These students have then gone on to delete their comments. One of the students who posted a link was Angie Orozco, the first Vice President who would succeed as SGA President. Angie Orozco has refused to respond for comment.
Accusations of verbal abuse and bullying are serious, and Frank Scales is not a soft-spoken person. If you go to this school and see Frank or his Instagram, he is exactly who he is: outspoken, direct and forward In a student leader, that is ideal, but when it is abused, things get out of hand quickly.
Frank Scales has apologized in the past to fellow SGA members for disrespectful communication patterns and being all over the place when it comes to an agenda. Frank has made amends, yet this news continues to loom over. To be called out on being verbally abusive to people of color on campus is something to not joke about and would need to be investigated. Frank Scales is on the hot seat. And so is administration. He is still involved in SGA activities and is currently the President of our student government. Despite this, nothing has stopped SGA from persisting and moving forward on their agenda for students. When asked about this, Scales said, “Supposedly impartial officials have acted in ways that have led me to be deeply concerned about the integrity of the investigation, but I am allowing the process to unfold and will fight any injustice that is committed. I am excited for the truth to come out, so I can get back to spending all my time serving the student body.”